Testing, one, two, three, four, one, two, three,
four. Testing.
This is October the 9th, sitting in the very
pleasant office of Dennis Carrington, chatting
with him about his experiences in what we used to
call intramurals here at A&M. Dennis, for the sake
of someone who might read this material and not be
acquainted with you, describe your experience
before getting to A&M. Where did you grow up? What
did mom and dad do? Where did you go to college? And
what did you do before coming here? I was born in
Cherokee Island.
My dad was a rent farmer. We lived on the farm until I
think I was in sixth grade. And at that time, he
decided I went to work for a local company that sold
and delivered fertilizer to farmers in that part
of the country. And at that time, moved to town.
That was really a big deal to live in town. I spent
the first several years of my life on the farm.
doing things farm kids do. Of course, living in
Quimby, Iowa, a town of about 400, wasn't much
different than living in the country. It was a very
small town. I grew up in a school district, small
school district, very into sports. Sports were
very important to the kids that went to school
there. I always had good sports teams. That was
probably my, the direction that I was headed in was
probably started there in that school district. I
started college at Iowa State University. I
thought I'd play basketball there. Found out
pretty quickly I wasn't quite good enough to play
there. And I actually got a half scholarship to
Morningside College, my sophomore year. Went
there and played basketball on the freshman team
that year.
I was married
at the time and had a child. I quit sports and
started working my way through college. I started
playing intramurals, actually, after putting
varsity basketball. That was the first taste of
intramurals, the first time I knew anything about
intramurals. My degree was in physical
education. At Morningside? At Morningside
College. Morningside was about 1,200 students,
probably, a Methodist-related school. Very good
place to go to school, good liberal arts
education. I had a degree in physical education,
teaching certificate. I was planning on teaching
and actually a teaching job offered to me and I also
had the opportunity to do a graduate
assistantship at Iowa State. At that point in time
after doing my student teaching I decided maybe
I'd be better off teaching in college than in high
school. So I went to Iowa State, spent a year there
and I worked with Len Rady who was involved with
then the National Intramural Association. He was
doing a presentation in Los Angeles and asked me to
help him with it. So while I was there and doing the
presentation, I met some people from Texas. They
offered me a graduate assistantship. I spent four
years at the University of Texas. Came to Texas
A&M.
How did you and Texas A&M link up? Carl Landis was
the
Carl Landis had called Sonny Rooker, who was the
director of men's intramurals at the University
of Texas, and asked him for a recommendation.
Actually, I just looked at some old files here
recently. There evidently was five people
interviewed. I only knew that I was interviewed.
There was actually five people interviewed for
the job in the summer of 1973. In June of 73. job was
offered to me in 1973. But it primarily based on the
recommendation of Sonny Berger and copies of the
recommendation letter, a really outstanding
letter. Do you have any recollection of what they
talked about or asked about in the interview? What
did it appear they were looking for? Well, this is,
I can't remember. This was in 1973 in the state of
San Am. At that time, my hair was fairly long, about
as long as it is right now, and I had a mustache.
Sonny, a good friend of mine, said, Dennis, you
might want to cut your hair and shave your mustache
before you get out there. So I told him, Sonny, I'll
cut my hair, but I don't want to shave my mustache.
So I cut my hair a little shorter because the... He
knew Carl Landis fairly well. He knew Carl was
fairly conservative. And he was right. But even
though my hair was a little long, Carl did hire me.
We talked about what
an opportunity there was at this university.
The intramural program had been almost entirely
core. Of course, the university was almost
entirely core up until, you know, the late 70s
probably. So there was, with women being fully
admitted around 72, this really opened up the
opportunity for an intramural program to expand
and grow. It really created an opportunity to
explore a lot of different possibilities.
The good thing about the way it developed at Texas
A&M, most of their schools at the universities at
that time had a men's program and a women's
program. Totally segregated. That didn't happen
here because there weren't women
here. It didn't happen until the early 70s. So we
started basically with a program for everybody,
men, women, and that allowed us to offer men's and
women's programs from the same department. It
allowed us to offer co-rec programs from the same
department. Most of the universities had either
two or three departments. Some of them had a men's
program, a women's program, and a co-rec program.
from my three different administrations. So we
bypassed all that stuff, and we're pretty lucky
because of the way things had developed here. And
the women's program just kind of flowed with the
rest of it, and there weren't the kind of the, you
know, for a university that was all male, all of a
sudden, the program looked a lot better than most
places where they had been segregated for years.
Were you replacing anyone? Actually, Carl Landis
had put Les Palmer in the director's job, and Les
did a lot of teaching in the kinesiology program,
the physical education program. He's a great
bowling instructor, he's a former baseball
player, he taught a lot of different things over
there, but bowling was probably his favorite.
less wanted to go back to teaching carl placed him
in the director's job to try to bring the program
back up to to carl's standards it evidently
slipped a little bit a few years before that and
less wanted to go back to teach so that's what carl
decided to take a look and see if he could find
somebody And what they were looking for was
somebody as young as me to take a program that was in
pretty good shape and really move it forward. And
that's kind of what we talked about in that
interview. What was your title as you began? Your
title? Director Venimeros. Director Venimeros.
And you reported to? Arlandis. In the department
of? Which was in the College of Education. So it was
theoretically then, organizationally, it was an
academically related. It was. The only
difference that, the good difference, in this
university is the money was coming from student
fees. The student service fee was funding the
program.
So the nice thing about that is we weren't
competing for academic money in a program that was
not academically related. We were competing for
student service money in the student service
program and that was a good part of it. It just so
happened that we reported through an And for many
years, probably until sometime in the 80s, all of
us or some of us taught in physical education. And
your beginning salary? $12,600. $12,000
in service fees and $600 for teaching, because I
was teaching six, I think. And this is the fall of
73? Fall of 73. Fall of 73. What facilities, what
spaces did intramurals have? We were officed in
DeWare Field House. There was a, at that time there
was like a central office and that's where we had a
full-time secretary, we had some student workers
that worked there and kind of a counter set up to
take entries and do all that business. There was
actually an office behind that area that we used
more for storage at that time. And then there was an
office for the assistant director, an office for
the director that's probably three times as big as
my current office. It was huge. And then we had
another office where we had equipment checkout
and rental that serviced the DeWare facility.
DeWare itself at that time was one big gymnasium.
It had been remodeled at some point in time in the
60s. There was 14
handball courts on the upper level. They put in a
second level, lowered the ceiling height in the
old field house, and then put 14 handball courts up
there. There was also a weight room that belonged
to the athletic department. It was about 3,000
square foot. And we used that weight room for
recreation There
was also a men's locker room, another small
storage room that we ended up using for an office.
As we grew, we needed office space. And a very small
women's restroom. There was no women's shower
facilities on campus at that time. This budget of
$50,000, that paid salaries. Salaries were
full-time. pay wages for student workers are
officials primarily. That's.
All so you have to pay for the use of any space. What
what for space to go use.
At that time we had. probably a softball field.
Every green space on campus had a softball field.
None of them at that time were lighted.
The area just south of Kyle Field had an astroturf
racing field that we used that. And the area, the
new, what is now the older of the tennis courts,
football practice fields in that area. So we had
just south of Kyle Field, four practice fields. Or
four, three or four that we used. And over on Duncan
Drill Field, which at that time was a side of the
Bonfire, we used that until the middle of October.
And we probably had eight football fields there at
one time. We also had an arrangement where we had
about eight softball fields in the spring. We had
other spaces uh what's now called peakly beach and
there we had two softball fields and we could
actually put in two ball fields since the drill
field was a drill field back then but we used it
primarily for sports clubs and even
or any activity that was forbidden in a certain
place in the intramural?
No. In fact, we used Kyle Field from time to time. We
didn't use it for games. If we needed lights, if we
started running out of space and time to run
programs, yeah.
That's a good
point.
When you started out, did anybody give you any
advice? Do's or don'ts? If so, summarize that.
Carl Landis, Les Palmer, John Corliss, anybody?
No, not really. As a matter of fact,
I can recall writing a memo to Carl Landis that had
three or four things that I thought we ought to do at
some point. And I was ready to I'm not sure if I said
it specifically, but I was really thinking at the
start of the next year that we ought to consider
doing some of these things and within a month he
said let's start. Either all of them or most of them
right now, he was ready to go. So to some degree they
were looking for somebody that had brought some
experience from someplace else and as young as I
was, I did have some pretty good experience
because Texas probably had the best program in the
country at that time. Did the fact that you had come
from the University of Texas, did anybody tease
you about it? All the time. All the time. And
probably one of the better stories, Rooster
Andrews is still alive. He's still over in Austin.
And he was, he's a sporting goods salesman. And he
sells to schools. And he's got a huge connection
with the University of Texas. And we had always
purchased stuff from him. His going away present
to me was about four or five different outfits. And
they're all burnt orange. Although I never wore
them on campus. I wore them quite a bit when I was
jogging around town and stuff like that. But that
was a pretty good story. It wasn't until I sent two
kids to Texas A&M that they finally let me be an
Aggie. Did anybody seriously ever say anything
about your being from UT? No. I think everybody's
always understood UT's a great school. And the
nice thing that we can say now that Texas A&M is just
as good. We've made a lot of progress over the
years. We were probably better than we thought we
were back then, too. At December, I think we had a
little bit of an inferiority complex. We had a
great school back then, too. And now we know it's
not a problem anymore. I try to work that into
almost every speech I make about A&M. And I try to do
it at first and see the crowd with their eyes blank.
And then I try to say, don't you agree with me that
everything they do, we try to outdo them? And says
yes. And I said, and so therefore, we're both a lot
than we would be if the other one didn't exist.
Exactly. With this recreation facility, Tom and I
have worked together to make sure we can get our
administration. We are competitive. We're still
competitive. Right. As a newcomer, describe
moving into station. Are you living in what it was
like to go to a new place? Well, when I came down here
for my interview, I really was. And I lived in
Boston for four years. I had no clue where College
Station was. I made it to College Station one day
and I didn't pull my map out when I got ready to
leave. I got lost leaving town. Very good, very
good. So I finally I got somewhere in North Bryan
and I was not on the right track and I had to pull the
map out and figure out where I was and I finally made
it back to Austin. I moved into College Station. I
lived in a duplex just off of Southwest Parkway and
in 1973 Southwest Parkway was the start of of the
country. Nothing or almost nothing south of
Southwest Parkway. There was a few houses, but
very few. That whole area just has exploded with
growth, and of course, the city at that time was
35,000. The stories were, and they probably were
true, there was two places where you could go get a
beer in College Station in 1973. a peanut shack on
Auburn Road, and the other one was Sparky's Pizza
over at Eastgate. And I guess that was true. I can't
remember any other places at that time where
alcoholic beverages were served at College
Station. There's a few others in Bryan, but that
was a long way away. Most people lived at College
Station at that time. But it was a very small town,
about 35,000, very pleasant place to be. The
school district was great for my kids, and so all of
that was just positive as it could be. And the
sports programs in this town for kids was probably
the best I'd ever seen. All right, back on the
campus, what were your goals as you started out?
The, besides DeWare Fieldhouse, at that time we
had, she brought Dwight, which primarily
There was an addition to G. Raleigh White that had
three basketball courts and a large locker room
for men.
Another addition to G. Raleigh White, and they
called it the expansion, they had one large
basketball court and a dance room and an activity
room, another classroom on the second floor. And
on the main floor, the primary reason the facility
was built, it had a women's locker room. It was the
first women's locker room for physical activity
classes on campus ever. And that was the primary
reason the facility was built. In looking at the
facilities that we had, it was evident to me coming
from the University of Texas that we were behind in
facilities. Even at that time, I had a vision of
building a reparation facility. It took me about
22 years to get it done, but we did get it done. And
part of the reason it took so much time, in the late
70s, this university was growing by as much as
3,000 students every year, and trying to keep pace
with providing enough activity space for
students to take classes. The primary focus at
that time was building enough activity space. So
most of the growth went through physical
education. We were designing physical education
space as opposed to recreation space. And there is
a small difference and what you can accomplish if
you set out to design recreation space versus
physical education space. And that's why it took
quite some time to really get around to building
recreation space. Were there any notable
absences in our facilities, our capabilities,
when you arrived? Actually, we were able to
accomplish everything we wanted to. Probably the
biggest drawback we had is the space in G. Riley
White that wasn't air conditioned. But most
campuses at that time had similar situations.
We all know now, in today's time, that exercising
in a space that's not air conditioned in the summer
in Texas is very high risk. Back then it was, you
weren't banned unless you could do that. We know
better than that now. That was probably the only
thing. We had the right kinds of things, we didn't
necessarily have enough. And of course that was a
problem because the university went in 1973 from
18,600. In 1985 we were, or 87 when we voted to build
the rec center, we were about 35,000. Pretty fast
growth. We're just trying to keep up with it,
especially when teaching physical education
activity classes. is it appropriate for me to
identify the different activities as sports what
if so describe all the sports that were being uh
conducted in intramurals when you got here for men
and then for women
we i would probably have to pull out some old which i
don't think i have in my office here we were At that
time, we had four major sports volleyball,
softball, like football and basketball.
Plus, track meet in the swimming, and they were
they were huge. We had 1000 people in the track
meeting and probably 600 in the swimming back at
that time.
And there were also some other sports like tennis,
handball, racquetball, some of what you consider
individual and dual sports. I would think we had
probably ran about 30 tournaments the first year I
was here in those sports. And they were really
focused on the core. We had teams for leagues for
core. We had leagues for core freshmen. We had
independent leagues, and we had residence hall
leagues. Shortly, within the next two years, we
opened that up. to co-rec leagues and women's
leagues. And in the women's we had independent
leagues and we had residence hall leagues.
Women's residence halls were started by that
time. What does co-rec mean? Co-rec is where men
and women play on the same team. Such as? They play
just about everything we do. Football,
basketball, volleyball, softball, soccer, just
about everything that we do. And the key there is
writing rules that equalized the competition.
And the co-rec is really a lot more popular than our
women's league. We have more women playing in
co-rec leagues than we do women's
leagues. Now we're in the neighborhood of 80
tournaments a year. So we're down from 30 to 80. But
the big change that happened was women's leagues,
co-rec leagues, and we went from offering one
skill level up to as many as four different skill
levels. What we're saying is we understand that
there's people on this campus who play varsity and
probably could play varsity for some colleges
that are playing flag football. There's also
people like me that still want to play flag
football, but I'd rather not play against
somebody that's that competitive so i play in
class d if i play and those and class d is
interesting in class c because you have people
from 18 to 60 playing in those leagues and really
enjoying it what we what we're trying to
accomplish is an opportunity for everybody
everybody to play in a competitive sport that
match their interest in competition but not
everybody wants to to go out there and get hurt
playing against high level competition. Who
encouraged the women to become more active in
intramurals? Did you and others? Where did the
drive come from? In reality, most of that came from
the men that played in the programs. And that's why
the co-reg leagues were so popular. It was another
opportunity for men to participate in
competitive sports. Even men coach, in reality,
men coach most of the co-rec league teams, and men
coach most of the women's. Now these are student
men? Yeah. So you'll have somebody from one of the
men's residence halls, and he'll be coaching a
men's team, then he'll get the co-rec team
organized, and he'll coach them. And then he may
even coach at, he may be paired with one of the
women's dorm residence halls on campus, and he may
coach their women's team too. Now in the 70s, was
that already going on? Yeah, it really got started
in 74, 75 is when it really got going. All right, our
first women's dorm was January of 71 when Dr.
Williams arrived, so it's that fast. As you were
getting started here, Are there some people
outside of the Department of Physical Education
and the College of Education, are there some other
people who were good allies?
Yes, very much so. John Coles, Vice President for
Student Services. It was shortly, probably in 75
or 76, I started going to his staff meetings. And I
talked with Carl Landis, and I said, look, we're
being funded by Student Affairs, Student
Services. John has this meeting, and he's invited
me. It'd probably make a lot of sense for me to be
there from a funding point of view. The better he
knows us, the more likely he is to fund us. And Carl
Landis agreed with that. And of course, they and I
started almost a 20-year relationship with Dr.
Gold. He was very helpful to us along the way.
charles mccandless charles mccandless was the
director of intramurals in the early 60s when i
knew him he was associate vice president and he had
responsibilities for facilities on this campus
facility planning for the campus and he was always
very helpful at a time when when we and physical
education were growing so fast and needing space
so badly, he was there to champion our cause. He
understood us. He understood what we were doing.
He was really helpful in that area. Describe the
personalities of Landis and Colas and
McCandless. Carl Landis
and I are probably quite different. I'm a lot more
liberal than he is. He's a lot more conservative
than I am in a lot of ways, but In time, and it didn't
take very long time, we were probably best of
friends. Not only was he a good supervisor, a good
boss, but we became good friends. Just a great
gentleman. I
can remember one time I got a little frustrated in a
discussion with him and one of those words came out
and he said, we don't do that in this office. And I
knew that and I knew from then on that I didn't
become frustrated with him because With Carl, it
didn't. If you had passion and presented a good
argument, he was going to listen and he was going to
give you an opportunity to prove yourself right or
wrong. I'm going to make believe that I'm a
neophyte. Could you count on Carl Landis to keep
his word? 100% of the time. 110% of the time. He's a
great gentleman. I think that's why I really
appreciate him about as much as anybody I've
known. Describe
the personality of Colas. John Colas was...
probably
for A&M and for the profession, an integrator in
student affairs. It's interesting because he
came from physical education, so he understood
our business pretty well. He came from physical
education, got started in student affairs at East
Texas State, now Texas A&M Commerce. So his PhD's
in physical education, but he had a a sense and a
feeling for our students.